# Using a Microwave

## What is a Microwave?

The microwave oven was invented by [Percy Spencer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Percy_Spencer) in 1945.

He conceived of and invented it while working as a radar system engineer when he gathered that a candy bar in his pocket began to melt when the radar was turned on.

### Working Principle

Microwaves are electromagnetic waves with a frequency of 2.45 billion Hz generated by a magnetron. This frequency causes water and oil molecules to vibrate and generate heat.

## Process

Microwaves work exceptionally well for many cooking tasks.

**High Power is suitable for:**

* [Cooking] Cooking vegetables
* [Cooking] Softening hard vegetables with high moisture content (e.g., potatoes, onions, and artichokes)
* [Puffing] Popping snacks, such as puffs, papadums, popcorn

**Medium Power is suitable for:**

* [Cooking] Seafood (e.g., [Microwave Green Onion and Ginger Black Cod](../../dishes/aquatic/Microwave_Green_Onion_Ginger_Black_Cod.md))
* [Cooking] Softening meat
* [Dehydration] Drying vegetable and fruit skins
* [Dehydration] Making jerky
* [Frying] Frying herbs
* [Frying] Softening leafy vegetables
* [Heating] Heating leftovers

**Low Power is suitable for:**

* [Defrosting] Defrosting food
* [Defrosting] Melting butter and chocolate

## Precautions

* Microwaves should not be used to heat water, which may cause it to superheat and explode (boil violently), causing certain impacts on your personal safety.
* **ABSOLUTELY DO NOT** use a microwave to heat eggs! Unless they are **shelled** **raw** eggs AND the yolk needs to be pierced. Heating causes the gas inside the egg to expand, leading to an explosion.
* Regardless of your purpose, even if you are curious, you should not use a microwave to heat whole fruits (such as grapes, blueberries, cherry tomatoes), which may cause them to explode.
* Since the wavelength of microwaves is 12.2 cm, microwaves heat small objects slower than large objects. Therefore, if they are small ingredients, it is recommended to gather them together for heating.
* Microwaves can only penetrate a few centimeters into food, so sometimes the outside is very hot, but the inside may still be cold. The solution is to put the ingredients with a small amount of liquid into a sealed bag, or put them in a bowl and cover with plastic wrap, allowing enough steam to be generated in the container to compensate for the microwave's tendency to cook unevenly.
    * **Tip**: Be careful of steam spraying out when opening the sealed bag.
* Microwaves can only heat objects containing liquid molecules such as water and oil, so plastic wrap and sealed bags will not be heated by microwaves.
* Metal can reflect microwaves without being heated. Please avoid using containers with gold rims or metal patterns to avoid uneven heating causing the container to burst. Be sure to use porcelain, glass containers, or microwave-safe baking trays.
